Welcome.
Welcome to session 604.
Today we're going to be talking a
little bit about Mac OS X Server.
In Steve's keynote
presentation yesterday,
he discussed a lot about Panther and
some of the new features that
we've introduced in the desktop.
Today we're going to be talking
about Mac OS X Server Panther,
give you a little bit of an
overview of what the product is,
some of the new features that are in it.
We understand that many
of you in the audience,
some of you are using
Mac OS X Server today.
For others,
this is the first chance you've
had to take a look at the product.
So we're going to kind of try
and have a session here that
can cover both audiences.
What we're doing is we're
building a server operating
system that is really innovative.
It's really the easiest way to
deploy open-source server solutions.
As you'll see in this presentation,
there's a lot of open-source
software that we've taken built
into the server operating system.
But our goal here, again,
is to make these open-source
server solutions very easy to use.
So let's take a step back and look
at what Apple's been doing in the
past with our server products.
In May of 2001, we introduced
Mac OS X Server version 10.0.
That was really the first new version
in our server operating system line.
And then in September,
we came out with a new version
that was the 10.1 version.
And that was pretty similar
to the previous product,
just some performance improvements
and stability improvements.
About this time last year
at the developer conference,
if any of you were here,
we kind of let out a little secret
that we were working on a new machine.
We talked about a rack-mount server.
And we announced that in June and
shipped it shortly thereafter.
So XServe was a major accomplishment
for Apple and really marked a
hallmark in our history of really
going after the server marketplace.
And then in September,
just a couple months after,
we introduced Mac OS X Server Jaguar,
the version 10.2.
And that was really a radical
improvement for us with regards
to the server operating system.
A lot of performance improvements,
many new features, a lot of new desktop
management enhancements.
Again, earlier this year,
moving forward to earlier
this year in February,
we updated the X Serves again.
Came out with a brand new X Serve,
an X Serve cluster node version,
and then the wonderful X Serve RAID,
which just has a massive amount of
storage for an unbelievable price.
And then our next version,
our next big server accomplishment that
we're working on right now is Panther,
or Panther Server.
And Steve mentioned that's scheduled
to be available later this year.
Hopefully all of you have had a
chance to take a look at the software
that we distributed to you yesterday.
In that packet there is
a copy of Panther Server.
And I know from me talking to
some of you in the audience that
many of you have already installed
it and been playing with it.
So I encourage you to do that.
There's a lot of new features in there,
new enhancements that you
won't find in the desktop.
Thank you.
So really,
what is Apple's server strategy?
This was discussed a little
bit in Bud Tribble's keynote
presentation yesterday,
but Apple's really striving to
bring innovation to the data center.
We think that there's a lot of
innovative new technologies,
simplifications that we can
bring back to the data center.
So what we're doing is, as we mentioned,
we're building this industrial-strength
server operating system.
We are leveraging the capabilities
of the open-source groups.
We're building upon the projects
that they've provided for us.
And we're also focusing on standards,
and standards, as you know, is very key,
because it doesn't lock you as a
customer into one particular vendor.
It allows you to pick the best
solution for what you're deploying.
We're also trying to build a product that
has a lot of different services built in.
We want this product to be very flexible,
fit into different environments.
So there's a lot of different
services in the product,
everything from file and print
services and internet and web,
desktop management technologies,
media streaming.
There's a whole wealth of
services that are built in.
But again, our goal here is to really
lower the cost of ownership.
Lower the cost of
ownership for our servers,
but also for our desktop systems with
our desktop management technologies
that we've built into the product.
So what's new in Panther?
Well, there's a wonderful
array of new features,
and this is just some of them.
We've got a really new,
improved Darwin core operating system,
the BSD layer of the operating system.
As you'll find in some
of the presentations,
there's a lot of new enhancements there.
We've got a new automatic
server setup feature,
making it very easy to configure
an entire rack of X Servers
or just a single server,
all from a configuration file.
We'll be talking about that more later
today in some of the other sessions.
We've listened to your feedback.
We've improved our
administration software,
have a new server admin application.
We've built in Samba 3.
Apple's Mac OS X Server is really
going to be the first commercial
operating system to ship with Samba 3.
And Samba 3 gives us
a lot of new features,
the ability to support PDCs so we
can host Windows Home directories,
have a single account for
a login and authentication.
Open Directory.
We have a new version of Open Directory.
Again,
not only LDAP-based directory services,
but also Kerberos for authentication.
Single Sign-On goes along with Kerberos,
so the user only has to
enter a single password,
and they can access other
services on their network.
A complete end-to-end VPN solution.
We have a VPN client in the
desktop operating system and now
a VPN server in Mac OS X Server.
JBoss application servers for
hosting J2EE-based applications.
And then also the new
Postfix mail server,
having a really industrial-strength
mail server finally on our server.
So now I'd like to turn the
presentation over to Greg Burns.
Greg is the engineering manager for
all of the Mac OS X Server project.
And Greg will give you an
overview of some of the features
that are in Panther Server.
Greg?
Thank you, Eric.
Thank you.
So now we're going to take a tour through
some of the features in Panther Server,
and specifically we're going
to focus on some of the things
that are new in this release,
but we'll cover all of it,
as Eric mentioned,
for those of you who maybe are
not so familiar with the product.
And as many of you heard yesterday,
underlying Mac OS X Server is
a Unix foundation.
It's based on open source, based on BSD,
and it provides the scalability
and the reliability you need for
a competitive server platform.
We've upgraded this to
BSD 5 in Panther Server,
and with this we get
a lot of improvements.
One of them is we've improved
performance in this release.
We've improved the raw throughput,
and in addition,
we've added POSIX asynchronous I.O.
support, which has been a popular request
from our database developers.
We've also enhanced the
scalability of the file system.
We now support up to 16
terabyte file systems.
Journaling is something that
was introduced for the server
in HFS in an update for 10.2.
And we've now integrated that into HFS,
and it is the default
for all HFS in Mac OS X,
journaling file system.
And finally, another popular request,
case sensitive HFS Plus for people that
are sharing file systems out to Unix
clients using XSERVs as NFS servers.
Case sensitivity has been
a very popular request,
so you now have that as
an option in the server.
With BSD networking also comes
advanced features like IPv6 and IPsec,
as well as multi-homing for
hosting multiple web domains.
For capable Ethernet interfaces,
we support Gigabit JumboFrame support.
And we also have IP over Firewire,
which makes a great back-channel
networking interface for IP failover.
IP Failover provides high
availability in the server.
It allows you to set up a pair
of servers that are clustered
and can support failover.
Each one can monitor the other and
pick up its IP addresses and its
services in case the other one fails
and then relinquish them when the
second server comes back online.
We also support automatic restart,
which allows any service to
be restarted should it fail.
It also will restart the whole
system in the event of a system hang.
And finally,
software RAID provides reliability
and performance in the storage layer.
And of course,
there's hardware RAID as well
from the XSERV RAID product line.
And for anybody that's
familiar with Unix,
of course, with BSD comes all the
familiar networking and
system administration tools,
secure login through SSH,
a variety of shells,
all the BSD commands.
It's very familiar to anybody that's
administered a BSD or a Linux server,
so you'll feel right at home.
Now we could stop there and just
take all the open source foundation
and throw the services on it,
but we didn't.
And we've put a lot of effort into making
sure that it's all integrated and making
sure that the management tools that
we provide make the whole system very
easy to set up and very easy to use.
And so what we've done is we've
added tools for automatic setup,
automatic configuration.
We've provided a wide suite
of server management tools for
ongoing day-to-day management,
and we've provided directory
management tools for the directory.
Automatic server setup allows you to take
a server right out of the box and set it
up very simply in a matter of seconds.
You can take a server configuration
for things like IP address,
domain names, service setup,
and you can save that into a
file and put it on a portable
device like a FireWire drive,
an iPod, or a USB keychain drive.
And then when you take a
server right out of the box,
brand new, turn it on,
plug it in to the network,
you can just plug that
drive into the server.
It will recognize the configuration
file and configure itself
automatically in a matter of seconds.
Now, that works great if you have
one or two or three servers,
but if you have a whole rack of servers,
even just moving the drive around
can get kind of cumbersome.
So what we've also done
is allow you to store this
configuration out on the network.
So you can take a rack of
servers that are brand new,
never been touched,
plug them into the network,
turn them all on,
and have them all grab their
configuration directly and be up
and running in a matter of seconds.
So you can't get much simpler than that.
So let's move over to a quick demo here,
and we'll have Eric come up and
just do a quick demonstration to
show you how simple this really is.
Okay,
so we're going to go to slide number one,
or machine number one here.
Normally when you set up the server,
you have the setup assistant
that comes up and walks you
through configuring of the server.
What we've done is we've
walked through that process,
but saved all those settings into a
file that I have here on this iPod.
And so I'm going to take the iPod,
and I'm going to plug it in here.
And if all goes well,
what Panther Server is going
to do is it's going to see
that this iPod is connected,
that it mounts.
And in a couple seconds,
we'll see a barber pole come up.
It's going to configure the
server and get the services up and
running for that configuration,
and then it's going to
automatically restart the machine.
So it's a little -- oh,
someone stole their IP.
I don't know the address.
We didn't even know that.
But this configuration file,
it sets it up,
and it just automatically restarts,
and then you're set to go.
All right, thanks, Eric.
So in your networks,
you all have better control of your
IP addresses than we do here at Moscone,
but it is very simple.
So let's move on back to the slides here.
So another area that we've
improved in Panther Server is
the administration tools.
We've taken all of the
administration tools and
integrated them into a single app,
which allows you to set up and monitor
your services on a day-to-day basis.
It runs as XML over HTTP,
so you can monitor and configure
your services remotely.
You can configure and monitor
multiple services from within the app.
And one cool feature we've added in
Panther Server is the ability to easily
replicate configurations between servers.
So for instance,
if you have a server configuration,
like a file server or a web server,
and you've set it up,
and you want to replicate
that across a bank of servers,
you can now just take that configuration
and drag it from one service to another,
and it will automatically
configure the second server,
or the third, or the fourth.
So it makes it very easy in a single
step to configure multiple servers and
to change your configurations across
multiple servers on an ongoing basis.
Again, very simple,
a very cool feature that's
new in Panther Server.
So again-- we'll have Eric come up,
and we'll do a quick
demo of Server Admin.
ERIC SCHMIDT: OK.
So we'll move to
computer number two here.
And so the Server Admin application,
like I said, is a great new application
that's in Panther Server.
It allows you to take a look at all
the services that you have running.
So in this list here on the left,
we have two servers
that I'm connected to.
I'm watching the servers,
and I can connect through here.
I can see their network traffic
and the CPU usage and get some
of the various information.
One of the really neat features--
this is the ability to actually
take the settings from one
service and apply that to another.
So I'm actually going to open
up a new server window here.
And in this interface,
I'm going to go to my Apple File Server,
and I'm going to make some
changes to the configuration.
So I'm going to say,
welcome to my server.
Server Rocks.
And I can go in here and change,
you know, configuration methods.
You know, that's great.
Any method.
I can set it to only, you know,
support 200 connections.
I can hit save here.
Oops.
I can go, okay, we're going to go back.
I can go to logging.
I can set different logging options,
even control different settings.
Now, when I save this,
I can take this configuration just
by holding down this little checkbox,
this checkbox.
This is the check mark that we have here.
I can drag that to another
server in the list.
So over here,
I'm dragging this to the other server,
and it'll take that setting and
apply that to this other server.
So it's a really easy way
of taking the services,
the configuration that you have
from one machine and applying it
to other machines on your network.
Thanks, Eric.
Lastly,
Workgroup Manager allows you to manage
the directory in Mac OS X Server.
All of Mac OS X Server is
based on directory system,
open directory that underlies it.
And all of the information
about accounts,
authentication, service configuration is
stored in the directory.
And Workgroup Manager lets
you easily manage accounts,
account settings,
as well as preferences and
other things that can be
configured through the directory.
Eric Zelenkka, Greg Burns,
Francois Jouaux
Because Mac OS X Server is based on LDAP,
this actually works
with any LDAP v3 server,
the one that comes with Mac OS X Server,
as well as if you're using a third-party
LDAP server for your environment,
it'll work with those as well.
Another new feature we've added for
Panther Server is a directory inspector,
which is a very cool feature for
power users that actually allows
you to go in and edit the raw
records in the directory server.
So it's not something you
need on an everyday basis,
but it's a powerful feature
for people that need it.
So open directory is an area
that we've made a lot of
improvements in Panther Server.
Open directory is Mac OS X's
framework for accessing directory
and authentication information.
All of the services in the client
and the server use open directory.
And open directory allows us
to integrate with the native
services in Mac OS X Server,
LDAP and Kerberos,
as well as a variety of other services,
NIS for Unix environments,
Active Directory, NetInfo, BSD files.
So you have a wide variety of
choices for configuration and for
storing directory and authentication
information for your Mac OS X systems.
So in Mac OS X Server,
we provide the services themselves.
LDAP is now based on OpenLDAP,
and Kerberos is based on MIT's Kerberos.
And Kerberos provides
us with single sign-on,
which is new to
Panther and Panther Server.
This allows you to log in once securely
at login time at the login window,
and then access all of your services
with a secure Kerberos ticket.
So file services, email,
you don't have to store passwords
separately for each service now.
And also, for those of you that are
familiar with Mac OS X Server,
this also gives us
authenticated automounts.
So this is another important security
improvement in Mac OS X Server.
We know that not all of the
services are going to be Kerberized,
that some of you will always need
to access legacy services that
use standard password encryption.
And so for that, we have Password Server,
which provides legacy encryption methods.
So Single Server,
Single Sidon is based on Kerberos.
We are adopting MIT Kerberos for this.
It's based on V5.
We're not changing the
Kerberos protocol in any way.
And so because of that,
our implementation, our server,
our client can be used with
any deployment of MIT Kerberos.
So whether you choose to use Mac OS X as
your KDC or whether you choose to use
your own residing on another platform,
our services will work.
Now, of course,
we provide KDC and Mac OS X Server to
make it really simple out of the box to
set up and configure and have a complete
authentication and directory environment.
Another improvement we've made in
Open Directory is to improve the
scalability of the directory services.
LDAP is now hosted on
Berkeley DB for scalability.
For those of you
familiar with the server,
in the past it was hosted
on a NetInfo backend.
We still have NetInfo in the system
for those of you that want to use
it for legacy support reasons,
but for Mac OS X Server, Panther Server,
and beyond, all of the default directory
services are based on LDAP,
on Open LDAP on Berkeley DB.
This gives us the capability
of hot backup for greater
availability and scalability to
over 100,000 records per server.
Of course, if you need more than that,
you can also replicate your services.
We provide replication locally that
allows you to have greater availability
or to have multiple servers serving
the same directory information,
and you can also replicate remotely for
greater availability for remote sites.
And another thing we've done, again,
to further improve the overall
usability of the system out of the box,
is to have a more secure system.
The overall usability of the system
out of the box is we've integrated
the Kerberos KDC backend with password
server and with the LDAP server so
that all the replication happens simply
and automatically out of the box.
You don't have to worry
about wiring this up.
It's all connected and integrated fully.
And so with that,
we'll bring up Eric just to
show you how simple it is to
set up Open Directory services
in Panther Server.
Okay, so we'll go back to
computer number two here.
So on the screen, you'll see that we have
an open directory service.
Remember, it's the LDAP, the Kerberos,
the Sassl password authentication server.
So I can go and I can set a couple
of different settings for this.
First of all,
I can see an overview of what's
actually running on the system.
I can look at the logs and then
make configuration changes.
So this server is currently set
up to be a standalone server.
It's an isolated server.
But I can promote it to be
an open directory master.
This is going to turn on the
LDAP services and the Kerberos KDC,
et cetera.
I can also have a replica on my network.
A replica is a machine
that's bound to the master.
And I can also have this server connected
to an existing directory system.
So we've done a lot of work in the user
interface here to really improve this,
make it easy to understand.
You can also go through and
configure the different protocols,
search bases, set up SSL authentication.
And you can also define password
policies for your network.
So if I wanted to say that all my
passwords on the network have to
be at least a certain number of
characters long or differ from the
last four passwords that you've used,
I can make that change and impose that
upon all the users in the network.
All right.
Thanks, Eric.
Let's go back to presentation.
So that's open directory two.
So one of the most popular
services for any server,
obviously, is workgroup services,
file and print for the local intranet.
And of course,
we provide a wide variety of services
there for both file and print.
Looking specifically at
the file sharing side,
we provide native
services for Mac clients,
AFP, SMB Sys for Windows clients,
and NFS for Unix.
We've improved the
performance in this release.
As before,
we provide support for multiple
protocols on any SharePoint so all
clients can share the same data.
All the authentication is unified
through the LDAP backend with
the same account information.
And we have disk quota support so you
can control the use of server resources.
We made some improvements
to NFS in this release.
One popular use of NFS in the server
is to reshare the NFS volumes via AFP.
NFS has some security compromises
when you use that as a sharing method.
And so a lot of people like
to take a bank of X Serves and
use them to reshare enterprise
storage via AFP to their clients.
And another area we've improved NFS is
Greater performance and also
improving the reliability in
this release and adding NFS file
locking support for data integrity.
We've added Samba 3 for Windows client
support and integrated PDC or
primary domain controller
support directly into the server.
So that's all configured directly
out of the box very simply and easily
through the administration tools.
And what this means is now that
when you log into a Windows client
at the Windows login window,
you can use the same authentication
data from Mac OS X Server that's
hosted in LDAP that your Mac clients
use or that any other client uses.
You can share a home directory
with your Mac client,
whether you're accessing
it from Windows or Mac,
and you can host your roaming
profiles on the server.
That's all built into the system,
and it's configured through the GUI.
And finally,
we've added Active Directory integration.
This is native integration that's new
to Panther for both client and server.
And what this means is that there
are no schema changes required in
Active Directory to support Mac OS X.
It integrates with the Kerberos
authentication and Active Directory.
And for large installations
that have multiple domains in
their Active Directory forest,
we support automatic
multi-domain authentication.
So it's all very simple to use,
very simple to configure out of the box.
And all of the services
in Mac OS X Server can use
Active Directory for storage
of their directory accounts.
Another area that's important
in workgroup services
is workgroup management.
We spend a lot of effort at
Apple making Mac OS X very
simple and easy to configure,
easy to set up and use.
And that's great if you have one system.
But, you know,
you might have more than one.
You might have, you know, a hundred,
a thousand.
And then, you know, what do you do then?
Well, we have a set of products
in Mac OS X Server that make
this very easy to manage.
You can install systems on a large
number of desktops on the network.
You can set them up.
You can configure them and manage
them on a day-to-day basis.
These are workgroup management
services in Mac OS X Server.
It's all directory-based,
so all of this system configuration
is stored in the directory.
We provide services that allow
you to control preferences,
to set preferences on these systems,
to control their use of resources
both on the system and on the network.
And we provide tools to allow network
installation and setup of these systems.
Something that's new in
Panther Server also is the ability
to do this on mobile systems.
So if you have mobile computers,
Power Books, iBooks,
you can manage their accounts.
You can manage the
authentication information,
the account information,
and all of the preferences and everything
else that you set through the directory.
And that will be synchronized
automatically when your
system comes onto the network.
And so even mobile computers now
can be managed using these tools.
And finally, two tools for installing and
managing images on the network,
NetBoot and NetInstall.
NetBoot obviously allows
you to boot a system,
a desktop, or a server over the network.
And two things that we've added in
Panther Server are the ability to
NetBoot over HTTP as well as NFS,
and also the ability to do
a fully diskless NetBoot,
which is very handy if you have an
image of network diagnostic tools
where you want to debug a problem.
You can NetBoot completely
independently of any disk that's running
remotely or locally on the desktop.
For network install,
this allows you to install systems
over the network using Netboot.
And you can use it to
distribute software images,
distribute software updates.
And we've made a couple improvements
to this in Panther Server.
One is we've redesigned the tool
that you use to create the images,
the network image utility,
to make it simpler to use and
add a lot more options to it,
more powerful.
And another option that we've added--
it's been a big request-- is the
ability to do full image installs.
So now you can take a volume
that hosts system software,
has applications installed,
it's fully configured,
and you can clone that and do network
installs of system or volume images,
as well as packages or
clean system installs.
So that covers the workgroup
services built into Mac OS X Server.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm
going to bring Chris LeCroy and
then Francois Jouaux up on stage.
And they're going to talk more about
some of the services that allow
you to host web services as well as
network services in Mac OS X Server.
So Chris?
Looks great.
All right,
so internet networking services.
We've seen a bunch of the directory
services and file services.
Mac OS X Server also includes a good
number of internet network services.
So let me start that off.
The first one is media streaming.
So Mac OS X Server has always
included QuickTime Streaming Server,
which is an extremely powerful
media streaming server.
It's like
Extremely powerful for
streaming on the LAN.
You can do extremely high
quality across the LAN.
It supports multicast.
You can send extremely high
bitrate content over your
network using multicast.
It supports MPEG-4,
all the QuickTime content, MP3.
It's compatible with
Windows and Macintosh players.
It's also a server that is
powerful enough to be used for
streaming across the internet.
So a lot of the big content
distribution networks that you see,
including the ones that Apple uses,
are using QuickTime streaming
server as their streaming server for
serving MPEG-4 and QuickTime content.
And then with the advent of
802.11 and a PowerBook in the
QuickTime broadcaster application,
you can actually have a
completely mobile solution.
So you can actually take
a PowerBook wirelessly,
walk around the room.
Stream broadcast, send it up to a server,
and stream that out over the internet.
We've seen that done quite a few times.
So new with Panther Server is
QuickTime Streaming Server 5.
It's got all the same
features that it's always had.
It has no license fees.
We don't charge per stream.
Supports Mac, Windows, and Linux clients.
It supports Linux clients
through its MPEG-4 compatibility.
And it supports Instant On technology,
which basically eliminates all of
the buffering messages you would
see normally when you're streaming.
It starts up as fast as if it's playing
locally on a good broadband connection.
Skip protection,
which is our technology for guaranteeing
quality of service across the internet.
As we know,
there are always blips in the internet.
Skip protection is the technology
that basically eliminates those
blips when you're watching content.
And the servers perform extremely well.
They can, off of a single machine,
stream up to 4,000 concurrent streams.
And if you want to do more than that,
it's really just a matter of
buying a few more experts.
Also new with Panther Server is
QTSS Publisher.
So this is a new application
that provides a way to remotely
manage your QuickTime content.
For putting up on the internet.
So it automatically takes
care of things like hinting or
preparing it for the web servers.
It'll automatically create web galleries.
It's tightly integrated with the
Apache web server on Mac OS X Server.
It has all of the UI for
creating playlists,
managing the order of playlists,
scheduling playlists,
and doing all of those things.
MP3 playlists as well as
QuickTime content playlists.
It allows you to edit annotations.
And behind the scenes,
all of this is happening with some Unix
tools that we wrote for Panther Server.
So you can now, from the command line,
do things like hint movies,
change annotations,
all of that from the shell,
if that's the way you'd
like to do things.
QuickTime Broadcaster is a product
we shipped about a year ago.
It allows you to take
any FireWire camera,
plug it in,
and do a broadcast from your computer.
It supports all of the QuickTime codecs,
and of course,
it supports the standard MPEG-4.
It's got a...
A bit of functionality we
call reliable transport.
And what that is,
is a guarantee that the stream
from the broadcaster to the server
is going to be a solid stream.
And that's really important,
because if you lose packets between
the broadcaster and the server,
every single client sees that loss.
So we've got a way to guarantee
that all the packets get there.
It supports unicast
and multicast as well.
And it delivers ISO-compliant streams.
So those are MPEG-4 streams
to any standard player.
So it'll play on Linux for
any player that supports the
standard ISO MPEG-4 player.
So networking services.
Got both some old stuff and
some new stuff in Panther.
I shouldn't say old,
I mean it was available
in Jaguar's server.
I'm going to go through both of those.
We have an entire slew
of networking services.
I'm not going to go through all of these.
DNS, DHCP,
we've got a network time server,
firewall.
We've added VPN, which is new,
authentication.
And it's all standard.
So you can connect Macintoshes,
you can connect Windows machines,
Linux machines.
It's all completely standard.
We don't believe in proprietary
technologies where we can help it.
So, dynamic host configuration.
We've had DHCP in Jaguar's server.
We've added a couple of
things to the Panther server.
DHCP, as you know, provides automatic
doling out of addresses.
We've added the ability to specify
LDAP directories for those machines.
We've also added the ability in the
UI to bind a specific Ethernet address
to the IP address of any machine.
So, you've got machines that want
to have a permanent IP address
but have it served up via DHCP.
You can do that now through
our admin application.
And, of course,
you can control IP address ranges,
the lease times, and network routing,
things like that.
Next, some networking,
network routing technologies.
So we've had NAT on the
desktop for Mac OS X Server.
We've now moved that
functionality into the server.
So in the server admin,
you can now configure NAT.
We've also added a VPN server,
and that's all configurable in
the new server admin as well.
It works with all standards.
It also works with Windows technologies
so that you can use things like
MS-CHAP and PPTP as well as L2TP.
So DNS.
So we've bumped the
version of Bind up to nine.
So good, like that.
So you're going to get dynamic DNS,
things like that.
And as everyone knows,
it's the most widely deployed
DNS server on the internet.
For those of you who really
like to configure Bind files,
your job security is kind of limited now,
because we've added UI to the admin.
And if you get a chance to look at it,
it's actually pretty slick.
I think we did a good job
on the UI on this one.
And Firewall.
This isn't new,
but we have redone the UI on this.
It's really simple to set
up kind of basic rules.
It's using the standard Berkeley IPFW.
We also have some UI that will allow
the more advanced people to set up
basically any rule that IPFW can handle.
Something we didn't have in the past,
all of the configuration for Firewall was
actually stored up in a NetInfo database.
We've moved that down into a config file.
Although you can do everything in the UI,
if you need to SSH into a machine,
if you're on a non-Macintosh machine,
you can always get in there and
change those configurations that way.
And next is mail services.
So Mac OS X Server.
Prior to Panther,
we had a proprietary mail server.
It was a standard server.
It supported all of the
normal internet standards.
We also had a web mail
server through Squirrel Mail.
It allows connectivity because
it's all standard to any platform
that supports standard mail.
We've made a couple of changes.
We no longer have a
proprietary mail server.
We've moved to Postfix for the MTA.
And we did that for a lot of reasons.
It scales well.
It's very secure.
It was written by a security expert.
It's easy to configure in terms
of the configuration files.
If you've ever seen
send mail configuration,
you know what I'm talking about.
And then we've all, for IMAP and POP,
we've moved to Cyrus,
and there were a few
reasons for doing that,
too.
So Cyrus is a proven IMAP server.
It supports clustering,
so it's easy to scale it.
You can configure it to
work with multiple machines.
And it also supports the ability
to store your mail for different
accounts on any variety of machines.
So if you want to segment up your email
users to different back-end stores,
you can do that,
and it's not a problem at all with Cyrus.
And we are, of course, Kerberizing it,
so it'll work properly
with single sign-on.
And it also will support,
we will support SSL on our mail servers.
So on top of mailing lists...
With the mail server we had in the past,
in Jaguar,
it had a feature that would allow you
to take any group in the directory
and treat that as a mailing list.
Well, we're losing that because
of the new mail servers,
but what we've decided to do to kind
of replace that functionality is
to add a real mailing list server.
So we've added the Mailman
mailing list server.
Mailman's extremely powerful.
It's actually the one,
if you go to lists.apple.com,
it's the one Apple uses for its
mailing lists for the public.
We've built some UI into the
server admin to actually create
mailing lists in the admin.
Mailman, as you know,
has web-based tools as well,
so for your end users,
they can go in and they can change
their options if they want digest mode.
If they don't want digest mode,
they can go to a web page
and set all of that stuff up.
It supports all kinds of features,
such as mailed-in-mail-to-news gateways,
bounce handling, spam prevention,
and it's also got email-based
administration commands,
as most good mailing lists do.
Webmail.
So we have revved the version of webmail
that we're using in Panther Server.
Webmail is a standards-based
webmail package written in PHP.
There are some really
good things about it.
One is that it's pure HTML.
It's not using any JavaScript.
It's compatible with
basically any browser,
so you don't have to worry
about compatibility there.
Works with any SMTP or IMAP mail server.
I see no reason why you would
need to use it with anything
other than the Panther server.
Supports MIME encoding.
Address books now, which is new.
We didn't have that in the prior version.
Folder manipulation.
You can host this mail via SSL,
so you can have completely
secure mail over the web.
And we've gone,
the version that we've moved
up to now supports Japanese,
so we've got Japanese support
for Squirrel Mill.
And Eric's going to come up
and demo some mail for you.
Okay, so we'll go back to
computer number two here.
And our mail server in the PostMix mail
server is a really great mail server,
so we're really happy to provide a
really good user interface for it.
So here in the user interface,
the administrator can go in,
they can enable and disable SMTP,
set up their IMAP,
even have messages sent to
Postmaster at apple.com or whatever.
I can go in and I can
configure the mailing list,
as Chris showed,
in the user interface here.
You can enable them.
I can add new ones to it.
I can set up filters.
Spam prevention is very key,
very important.
This user interface here allows
us to have a real rich set
of spam filtering options.
And then also, control many log levels.
And then the last screen here allows
you to configure the authentication
options in some of the hosts.
So this is really important if you are
in secure environments or you want to use
Kerberos only for your authentication.
Nice feature down here is
the ability to use SSL.
So I can say, you have to use SSL,
or I can use SSL if it's available,
or I can require SSL.
So if you want to implement
secure email on your network,
you can do that and enforce it in
requirement for all your clients.
Great.
Thanks, Eric.
So back to the slides.
- Do you have slides?
So next is web services.
In Panther Server,
we're once again including
the Apache web server.
We have performance-optimized
Apache web server.
We're able to do far more
connections than a typical Apache web
server would be able to do.
It's even a little faster in Panther.
We ship 1.3 as the default web server,
and that's actually the one
that you'd be configuring when
you're in the server admin.
But we do include 2.0,
so people who do want to use that,
it's there.
You can use it.
Part of the problem we've seen is that
the adoption hasn't really happened yet.
There are a lot of modules that
haven't been ported over to 2.0 yet,
and so Apache 1.3 is what we
decided to stick with for Panther.
We greatly improved the
administration interface.
You may have seen Bud Tribble
demo a little bit of it yesterday.
It's really,
really easy to set up sites and
realms and things like that now.
We've included WebDAV for web publishing.
We have bumped the
version of MySQL to 4.0,
so for those of you waiting for that,
that's there.
The server has all kinds of support for
server-side scripting architectures,
SSI, Perl, Ruby, PHP.
We're changing the build style of PHP,
so we're actually including more
of the development functions that
people needed in our PHP module.
So that'll be good for development.
developers.
So basically taking all of
these things-- I don't know if
you guys can read all of that.
Mac OS X Server basically has everything
needed to create three-tier websites
or entire websites on Mac OS X Server.
We include a bunch of
stuff to do your own thing.
If you've got third-party products,
you can grab as well 4D, Oracle.
So it's a great development
platform for web development.
And Francois is going to come
up and talk to you a little bit
more about those technologies.
Thanks.
Okay, to wake up the audience,
let's have a little show of hands.
How many sysadmins are among us today?
How many developers
sitting in for sysadmins?
Also, these people must be a little
way above our head right now.
And for them, it's time to take out your
notebooks and to remember the few
slides that are going to come up.
So in Mac OS X Server,
we are leveraging the best standards
and the best technologies to bring
you the best application servers.
But first, there is Java.
Java has evolved as an
OS on top of the OS.
Nowadays, application servers are huge,
multi-threaded beasts.
They are all implemented in Java.
They spawn thousands of
simultaneous threads.
They open and close
thousands of I/O connections.
And they necessitate an enterprise-grade
Java VM underneath them.
That's what we are providing with a
JDK 1.4 and a JDK 1.3 implementation.
Now the big news today is JBoss.
JBoss is very popular out there.
It is popular for three reasons.
It's free, it's free, and it's free.
How do you bundle free software
and do not show up as a freeloader?
You add value.
And we believe we are adding
tremendous value on top of JBoss.
The real three reasons for
JBoss being popular are its
unbeatable quality for the price,
I'm going to improve.
The next one is its
perceived ease of use.
And the third one is its modular design.
It is perceived ease of use,
but as Marc Fleury, the JBoss founder,
says, they are pushing the envelope
at the container level,
which means that they are not really
investing in the deployment ease of use.
Developers love JBoss.
Deployers hate it.
If you're a sysadmin, to use JBoss,
you'll have to speak XML in your dreams.
Now,
this is going to be a dream come true.
We are introducing tools to enable you to
deploy JBoss easily on Mac OS X Server.
Our goal is to make
Mac OS X Server the best platform
to deploy J2EE applications.
We are doing this in three steps.
First, JBoss is integrated in
the server admin plugin.
Second,
there is a JBoss deployment tool that
lets you take J2E applications from
IDEs and package them,
talking to the JBoss server,
prepackage them to deploy them.
And third,
there is a JBoss management console
that lets you manage the JBoss server,
start and stop services,
look at its statistics, and so on,
and manage the lifecycle
of your applications.
Now, this is all nice,
but where is the modular design?
I'm going to give you a few examples of
services that we are bundling with JBoss.
The first one is Tomcat.
So you're all familiar with Tomcat.
We've been shipping it for a while.
We're revving the version to 4.1.x
because it's always evolving.
And we integrated it in JBoss.
So now Tomcat lives inside JBoss and
can be managed by the same tools that
I talked about in the previous slides.
And the servlet on GSP applications can
be prepackaged by the deployment tool.
The WebObjects application server.
WebObjects has been improved and will
be shipped as version 5.2.2 with a
much better J2EE packaging process.
You now have true WAR packaging
for WebObjects and also true
GNDI configuration for WebObjects.
Another example is, again from Apache,
it's the Axis Web Service project.
We're bringing version 1.1,
and it is integrated,
it benefits from JBoss,
and also is leveraged by WebObjects
for our direct web services solution.
This will be session 6.24, I believe,
on Friday.
So these are all but a few examples of
services that are bundled with JBoss,
and they enabled us to bring
to Mac OS X Server the best in
J2EE application deployment.
So as you can see,
whether you're hosting a single website
or whether you have a sophisticated
three-tier Java application architecture,
Mac OS X Server has all of the
services that you need built right in.
Finally, last but not least,
documentation.
So we currently ship
Mac OS X Server with two manuals,
and we've got lots of
requests to improve that,
and so we've answered those requests.
And we are going to be upping that
count to 12 manuals in this release.
We'll have over 1,000
pages of online help,
and we've added or updated over 100
man pages to better document the Unix
underpinnings of Mac OS X Server.
So we've really made some
big improvements there.
So to wrap it all up,
so Mac OS X Server is built
on a strong Unix foundation.
We have a broad array of services.
These are some of the highlights.
They won't even all fit on one slide.
But we've taken all of those.
We've integrated them.
We've put administration tools on top
of them to make it easy to set up and
use and manage on a day-to-day basis.
And for Panther Server,
the items up in blue are services
that have either been added or had
major enhancements in this release.
So BSD5, automatic setup,
major improvements to
the management tools,
Open Directory 2, Samba 3, VPN,
Postfix mail server,
JBoss application server.
So we've made a lot of
changes in Panther Server,
and it's going to be a great product.
So we also have a lot of
sessions that are coming up
here if you want to learn more.
This gives you an
overview of the product,
kind of lets you know
what's in Mac OS X Server.
There's an in-depth session that's
coming up after this over in the marina
that's going to go into more detail
about APIs and underpinnings of the
server if you want more information.
We have sessions on authentication
and directory services this
afternoon and tomorrow.
And for those of you that are
interested in desktop management,
we have sessions on those tomorrow and
Thursday that will tell you more about
the services and also for developers
tell you about building applications
that work well in those environments.
Now, one thing, if you're interested
in giving us feedback,
we have a feedback forum today.
It's at 5 o'clock.
But unfortunately,
due to scheduling conflicts,
it's also at the same time as
the authentication session.
So we hope you'll come to one of those.
Either come to the authentication
session to learn about authentication
or come to the feedback forum
where we'll be there to answer
your questions or take your feedback.
But we hope to see you at one of those.
Tomorrow, we have a, well, sorry.
Actually,
there are several WebObject sessions
going on throughout the conference,
but here are a few that we've
called out of major interest.
But check your books for the others,
as well as several sessions on
QuickTime streaming as well.
So if you have any more questions,
you'd like to contact somebody,
Skip Levins in developer relations
or Eric Zelenk in product marketing
are the contacts for Mac OS X Server.
And with that, I'd like to bring the
speakers back up on stage.
We have a bit of time for Q&A.
If anybody has any questions,
please step up to the mic and
we'll take your questions.